
Objective :
Find which Baby names are famous in USA since 1880 ?

Where to get data ? 
Social Security (SSA) maintain the names from 1880 in  SSA website .
Download the national data(7MB) , which will download the name file in .zip format as names.zip .

Why we need cleanup and what is the problem in the files?

1) All the files in names.zip folder are in format  yobXXXX.txt  (xxxx are YEAR) and contain the data for year mentioned in file name.
2) Each file contain three fields:  The name, the gender (M or F)  and the number of babies of that gender  for the year mentioned 
in the file name.

e.g  : 
yob1880.txt
---------------
William,M,300

This means there are 300 name  'William' in 1880 (Gender Male).


As Year is part of the file name itself and not part of data in file name, It is not possible to find a particular name trend over
the year without data cleansing. So, we first need to parse each of the 100+ file and extract the  year  from the file name and 

concat that to the file content.

expected file content:
1880,William,M,300

Solution:
While this can be done using Python/R through a script
1) Read each of the file name (Loop)
2) Extract the  year from the file name
3) Append the year to the content of the file like :  YEAR:NAME:GENDER:NUMBER OF BABY OF THAT GENDER IN THAT YEAR
4) use dplyr/ggplot2 (R)

if you want to do in R way - you can refer the link
https://billpetti.github.io/2017-08-17-exploring-trends-baby-names-from-scratch-r/


We Will do it using Tableau Prep :
1) Open Tableau Prep.
2) Download national file from https://www.ssa.gov/oact/babynames/limits.html and Unzip the names.zip file that was downloaded 
from SSA website 
3) Connect to text file from tableau prep and use "Multiple file with wild Union" - this will scan all the files in the
name directory as all file have similar naming convention.
45) Rename the fields appropiately (Name,Gender,Count) 
6) Bringing the Year from file name to the content :
- Auto Split the field  "file paths" that has all file name and tableau is smart enought to spit the years out of it..
7) rename the year field and remove the unwanted field.
8) Run the flow to produce output in CSV or tde or Hyper file which Tableau can directly open and start analyze.
